In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure DNS on an ESX I host cluster.
So here you can see my cluster it currently contains 2 ESX I hosts and one of the really critical things
that I have already set up in advance here is on my ESX I hosts I have actually set up a Wii motion
network.
So if we go to each host we look at the configure option and we go to our virtual switches here we can
see on both hosts I have a port group called the 199 a group called V.M. network.
And if I look at my other ESX I host I should see the identical configuration.
So I've got the same port groups configured on both hosts and I've also got a VM kernel port that is
marked for Wii motion.
And each one of these ESX I host.
Right.
And that's critical because Diyar us is completely dependent on the motion.
Right that's all d r S's is automatic Feme motion for the purposes of load balancing.
So I've got my Wii motion network all ready to go.
I've got my VM kernel ports created I'm in good shape there.
So let's go back to the cluster itself and edit the configuration of the cluster.
And I've named it ha cluster but I'm going to have DRM enabled on this cluster as well.
And let's walk through the settings.
So the first setting is whether or not we want to turn Diyar ass on.
And in this case I've already enabled the.
And then I can choose the Deros automation level the automation level is a very important setting and
you can see here I have it configured for manual and in manual mode Diyar DRM will never automatically
migrate virtual machines from host to host.
Right.
It will simply give you recommendations and you can manually choose whether or not you want to carry
out those recommendations.
Partially automated is a little bit different in that you're turning over more control to the center.
Right.
So it's partially automated dioramas.
What's going to happen is as you power on virtual machines DNS will just automatically choose a host
to place them on right so let's say you're powering on a virtual machine that's very memory intensive.
Well dress will automatically select the ideal host in your cluster to run that virtual machine.
Right and then we have a fully automated mode and in fully automated mode we're basically turning complete
control over to the center.
We're saying you know what.
The sooner you can migrate virtual machines from host to host anytime you want carry out as many of
the motions as are necessary.
Doesn't matter what time of day it can be during business hours.
It can be whenever.
So with fully automated mode we're letting a lot of stuff happen automatically we're letting all of
our emotions happen automatically without our approval.
And then we can also choose the migration threshold so you can see here it's currently right in the
middle right.
And in most cases this is the optimal migration threshold.
You really don't need to change this unless you have a really good reason to do so.
Now you can change it if you want.
Right we could go up to aggressiveness level 4.
And that's going to make changes that promise even a moderate improvement to the load balancing but
in most cases you know that's overkill right.
So in most cases we'll just leave it at the default migration threshold and that should be just fine.
We can also enable predictive diyas if we want.
Right so DRM is going to look at forecasted metrics that are delivered from the Realize operations and
move virtual machines proactively before resource contention even occurs.
Pretty cool feature.
I'm going to disable it in my lab.
But that's a possible feature for real life.
That might be helpful.
Virtual Machine automation.
Do we want the ability to override this de-risk cluster configuration for individual VM.
So for example let's say I have a V Center server appliance deployed on a virtual machine.
I might not want that to move from host to host right.
I always want to know which host my center server or appliance VM is running on.
Right.
That way if I ever need to counsel then to have a rebooted or something like that I know where it is.
So by checking this box we're basically saying we can go to individual VMS and configure settings for
specific vim's.
Right so maybe I'll put the center in manual dress mode.
Right.
So the only time it will move is if I actually manually approve it.
Do we want to try an evenly distribute virtual machines across hosts for availability reasons.
That's your call if you want to enable that or not do we want to load balance based on consumed memory
rather than active memory of virtual machines.
Really this is ideal for clusters where you have memory that's not over committed meaning you have a
bunch of virtual machines and even if they all use their memory at once you still won't have a memory
shortage right.
So in that case I'm going to go ahead and just leave that as is and I'm going to hit OK on my cluster
here and now I've been able to fully automated DRM.
So if I go to my distress service here you can see it's unable and fully automated but.
So let's go to the monitor tab and let's take a look at these fair.
And right now I can hit run diarists and old tell me are there any recommendations right.
Is there anything that should happen.
Should I migrate VMS from host one to host two or anything like that.
But there's no recommendations currently.
If we were to configure DNS in manual mode we would see a list of recommendations here and then we could
choose to manually apply those recommendations if there's any duress fault.
We'll see those here.
There's none right now.
And this is really handy right once you enable fully automated Diyar as you may want to see what's actually
going on.
Right.
What is the IRS doing within your cluster.
What moves isn't making.
So this is a good way to see all the moves that Demarest has made recently.
And then we can also take a look at the CPI memory and network utilization and get an idea of how evenly
the work load is distributed across the hosts in my cluster.
So that's how we configure dress right.
Pretty straightforward to set it up.
If you're brand new to the IRS I always recommend starting it out in manual mode and letting it roll
for a few days and keeping a close eye on the recommendations.
Right.
And then you'll have a really good idea of what's actually going to happen when you enable it and fully
automated mode.
And the other thing to remember is that Deros is just really Wii motion right.
That's all it's doing is migrating virtual machines from host to host using Wii motion for load balancing.
So if your Wii motion network is not set up correctly or if you've got CPQ affinity or local ISO images
or things like that those things are all going to impact the.
So you really need to make sure that all of your virtual machines on the cluster are properly configured
for Wii motion prior to enabling DNS.